CPSC 304 Project

The domain that we are going to model is a restaurant. We are going to focus on modelling data that allow a restaurant to operate efficiently, from ordering food to paying the bill. 

We will focus on the workflow of the restaurants. This will include different types of employees, like chef, waiter and manager - we can identify each with a name and employee ID. The chef will be responsible for preparing an order, while the waiters will take and deliver the order to the customers. A customer (or group of customers) will be identified by the table number, and each customer can order many food items per order. An order consists of different food items (i.e. main dish, drinks). Each food item will contain exactly one special ingredient, and we will also keep track of the supplier of the ingredient through supplierID. Furthermore, there is one manager per restaurant, and the manager will be in charge of collecting the bills paid by the customers.

We are hoping this would assist the workflow of the restaurant. This can help keep track of who is working at the restaurant, the orders requested and bills paid by each customer, and the price of the order to name a few. As restaurants can get hectic, it is preferable to have a system that can handle a substantial amount of data. This can reduce the mistakes made by the employees and allow them to focus on their designated tasks. Collecting the information in a database allows for the growth of the restaurant. For example, by keeping track of the orders that customers are making, the restaurant is able to make appropriate changes to the menu (adding items that compliment currently popular dishes and removing items that do not sell). Furthermore, by tracking the popular times (flow of customers) of the restaurant, managers are able to assign work shifts that help accommodate for busier times, as well as reducing the number of employees during idle times.

This project will be done using the CPSC department's Oracle database system, using PHP platform and Oracle as our technology stack. We do not anticipate using any special software or hardware.
